---
title: "CTM in May @ WeWork Potsdamer Platz"
date: 2019-05-23T18:00:00+02:00
image: "/images/2019-05-23/highres_481657805.jpg"
# categories
categories: ["ctm - Berlin"]
tags: ["ctm", "berlin"]
# meta description
description: "CTM in May @ WeWork Potsdamer Platz"
# save as draft
draft: false
summary: "Talks:<br>How I learned to stop worrying and love record and playback (Dave Haeffner) <br> Cognitive approach to software quality - decode your brain (Aleksandra Kornecka)"
# Images path
path: "/images/2019-05-23/"
---

### How I learned to stop worrying and love record and playback
[Dave Haeffner, Software Developer, Applitools](https://twitter.com/tourdedave)

Record and playback tools like Selenium IDE have a stigma attached to them in our
industry -- they're not worth your time, they produce tests that are impossible to
maintain, and they're only for non-technical people. But with the new Selenium IDE,
that's all just a bad rap. In this talk Dave Haeffner will squash the stigma by
showing you examples of how Selenium IDE can reliably augment and level-up your
testing practice regardless of your team's test automation maturity or your 
level of technical experience. He'll also share how he went from a 
record-and-playback naysayer to a Selenium IDE maintainer.

###### Bio
​Dave is an active member of the Selenium community and a full-time maintainer of
Selenium IDE. He is also the author of Elemental Selenium (a free, once weekly tip
newsletter on how to use Selenium like a pro) and The Selenium Guidebook 
(a guide on how to use Selenium successfully).

{{< button-link "https://www.dropbox.com/s/et6q0qi6bq0vned/berlin-meetup-may-2019.pdf" "Slides" >}}

### Cognitive approach to software quality - decode your brain
[Aleksandra Kornecka, Software Quality Assurance Engineer, OLX Group](http://aleksandrakornecka.com/)

Let's talk about quality with cognitive approach to software development 
life cycle! When or where the quality starts in your opinion? How do you
perceive your code before you write a line of code? I invite you for a 
meeting with cognitive approach to software development. During the talk 
I will share my approach to quality assurance that allows me to minimize 
the human factor bugs. Meet some cognitive science useful to deal with 
daily work with software and various people who create software.

###### Bio
Software Quality Assurance Engineer and certified tester. Passionate 
about quality process, UX and IA. MSc. in Cognitive Science. Non-profit 
activist, international conferences speaker and social media ninja. 
Proud leader and co-founder of Girls Who Test meetup and group 
(not for girls only!).

{{< button-link "https://speakerdeck.com/aleksandrakornecka/test-dive-conference-cognitive-testing-in-shift-left-mindset" "Slides" >}}