---
title: "CTM in September @ Vivy"
date: 2019-09-10
image: "/images/2019-09-10/highres_484778193.jpg"
# categories
categories: ["ctm - Berlin"]
tags: ["ctm", "berlin"]
# meta description
description: "CTM in September @ Vivy"
# save as draft
draft: false
summary: "Talks:<br>End-to-end load testing at scale (Oliwia Zaremba) <br> Simplifying Test Automation with OxygenHQ (Nachum Dimer)"
# Images path
path: "/images/2019-09-10/"
---

> Special **thank you** to **[Vivy](https://www.vivy.com/)** for hosting and 
sponsoring drinks!

### End-to-end load testing at scale
[Oliwia Zaremba, Software Engineer at Zalando SE](https://twitter.com/tortilato)

Zalando served over 4,200 orders per minute at the peak of Black 
Friday 2018 campaign. In the world of microservices, Kubernetes, 
autoscaling and ubiquitous monitoring, load testing still played 
a crucial role to ensure the readiness of all the systems without 
overprovisioning and wasting money. I will share the challenges 
we met during our journey and the lessons learned from the process 
of simulating real users’ behavior on Zalando website at a large scale.

{{< button-link "https://github.com/zalando/public-presentations/blob/master/files/2019-09-10-end-to-end-load-testing-at-scale-Continuous-Testing-Meetup.pdf" "Slides" >}}

### Simplifying Test Automation with OxygenHQ
[Nachum Dimer, Co-founder and CEO CloudBeat.io](https://twitter.com/n_dimer)

Test automation has been around for almost two decades yet for many 
years the market was questioning its efficiency and ROI. However, 
since Selenium framework has been released, test automation has been 
seeing a renaissance. What started as a developer-oriented tool has 
now become a de-facto standard for web and mobile automation testing, 
and yet many QA teams still struggle to implement Selenium in a timely 
and cost efficient manner. We've got some help coming your way!

Nachum will present Oxygen, a new open source framework and IDE for 
Selenium. Oxygen significantly simplifies work with Selenium and Appium 
by providing a unique combination of Node.js-based framework and a 
dedicated development environment. With Oxygen, both manual testers 
and test automation engineers can easily create a wide range of automation 
tests: Web, Mobile, API, DB, IoT and more. Learn more about OxygenHQ: 
http://oxygenhq.org/

###### Bio
Nachum Dimer is an Israeli entrepreneur and QA evangelist with almost 
20 years of experience in software architecture, development, and 
testing. Nachum has been working with a wide range of companies 
to help build, test and deploy various types of applications and 
systems. Nachum and his team has been developing a unique set of 
tools to help modern QA and agile teams to streamline testing, 
increasing clarity, stability, and value for the business

###### Video
{{< youtube toZBLn3Ni1I >}}