---
title: "CTM in October @ WeWork Stralauer Allee"
date: 2019-10-22T18:30:00+02:00
image: "/images/2019-10-22/5.jpg"
# categories
categories: ["ctm - Berlin"]
tags: ["ctm", "berlin"]
# meta description
description: "CTM in October @ WeWork Stralauer Allee"
# save as draft
draft: false
summary: "Talks:<br>Extending Robot Framework with custom Keywords - presenting possibilities of a versatile testing framework (Nils Balkow-Tychsen) <br> Optimizing iOS Startup Performance and Analyzing Its Internals (Umut Uzgur) <br> Continuous Testing and Mobile DevOps (Moataz Nabil)"
# Images path
path: "/images/2019-10-22/"
---

### Extending Robot Framework with custom Keywords - presenting possibilities of a versatile testing framework
[Nils Balkow-Tychsen, Senior QA Engineer at Humanitec](https://twitter.com/NilsPfoegelchen)

Building a test suite for developers PaaS integrating GitHub, Kubernetes, 
Drone CI, and other APIs is an interesting challenge. I'll go into detail 
how I integrated APIs and python libraries to make them available as 
BDD driven end to end tests.

###### Bio
Nils is a Senior QA Engineer at Humanitec. Working in software 
testing for more than 20 years. In different industries like finance, 
games and developer platforms. Lately specializing in testing web 
apps based on Microservice architectures.

###### Video
{{< youtube QU_-KGLzK3c >}}

### Optimizing iOS Startup Performance and Analyzing Its Internals
[Umut Uzgur, Senior Software Engineer at Sauce Labs](https://twitter.com/UmutUzgur)

How to optimize iOS startup performance by passing the right 
capabilities and explaining where the bottlenecks are coming from.
We will show which components Appium is using for iOS testing. 
Then, we will try different combinations of capabilities and 
explain which one is faster why by going a bit into Xcode details. 
The talk will also cover what Appium is planning in the future 
for speeding this up further.

###### Video
{{< youtube BpyWJQ2TkTg >}}

### Continuous Testing and Mobile DevOps
[Moataz Nabil, Senior SDET/Test Automation Engineer at Delivery Hero](https://twitter.com/Moatazeldebsy)

Build your Mobile CI/CD pipeline in a few steps

Mobile DevOps is a practice of bringing the different disciplines 
involved in developing, testing, releasing, and operating software 
into being functional inside organizations or by a team that works 
closely together. The team is able to continuously deliver their 
product based on continuous feedback and iteration. There are different 
practices, habits and different flavors of adopted company cultures 
that set the behavior for an actual process and daily doing.

In this talk, we'll take a look at the most common and widely accepted 
Mobile DevOps using Bitrise and building our own Android/iOS CI/CD 
pipeline from scratch.

###### Video
{{< youtube 8IdeUJdx8Xg >}}