---
title: "CTM @ FlixBus - AI in Test Automation"
date: 2019-11-21T18:30:00+02:00
image: "/images/2019-11-21/highres_486050884.jpg"
videos: ["https://youtu.be/kecGB9VDoe0", "https://youtu.be/sU2o-qceIB4"]
# categories
categories: ["ctm - Berlin"]
tags: ["ctm", "berlin"]
# meta description
description: "CTM @ FlixBus - AI in Test Automation"
# save as draft
draft: false
summary: "Talks:<br>Testing conversational AI: The Rise of The Bot (Christoph Börner) <br> Using AI to automate test case decision (Noemí Ferrera)"
# Images path
path: "/images/2019-11-21/"
---

> Special **thank you** to **[FlixBus](https://www.flixbus.de/)** for hosting and 
sponsoring drinks!

### Testing conversational AI: The Rise of The Bot
[Christoph Börner, CEO Botium](https://twitter.com/grisuBotium)

Conversational AI is driving the industry like hardly any other topic. 
Chatbots and virtual assistants are playing major roles in the automation 
strategies of companies. The hypes generated around Amazon’s Alexa or 
Apple’s Siri are only two examples. Technically, these are robots 
based on artificial intelligence to imitate human conversation through 
text and voice commands. And, bots are here to stay!

Chatbots are the new websites and will kill 99% of the apps out there. 
By 2022, over 80% of businesses are expected to have some kind of bots 
implemented. Voice assistants will soon power 85% of all customer service 
interactions. We will widely rely on them and that makes it extremely 
important to assure the quality and test thoroughly. There the problems begin...
Talking to a chatbot has no barriers. Combining this with unpredictable 
user behavior, it becomes utmost difficult to verify the correctness of 
conversational AI. Training data and test sets are infinitely large. 
In fact, quantity plays a crucial role in quality assurance for bots 
but makes it impossible to test manually.

In this talk, we will discuss how challenging it is to test conversational 
AI, the differences to quality assurance of conventional applications a
nd focus on test automation strategies based on the Botium framework.

###### Bio
Christoph Börner is an entrepreneur, developer, tester, keynote speaker 
and organizer of meetups and community events. Together with his team 
in Vienna, they are inventing Botium, the upcoming industry standard 
in testing chatbots, voice assistants and conversational AI. After 
Selenium for web and Appium for mobile, Botium is the next logical 
step for bots. And, it's open source!

###### Video
{{< youtube sU2o-qceIB4 >}}

### Using AI to automate test case decision
[Noemí Ferrera, Solution Architect at Sauce Labs](https://twitter.com/TheTestLynx)

In this talk, you’ll learn how to use different techniques and methods 
to help you decide which tests to execute from a long list without 
comprising quality, including the use of artificial intelligence.

A common issue with current applications is that the number of test 
cases in an application increases rapidly with the number of features 
developed. However, the speed of development is expected to increase every release.

How can you make sure that your application is safe to be delivered 
without compromising quality in the process? This is what I started 
wondering a few years back. I encounter a long list of test cases 
created and I was the final responsible for signing off before release. 
So, I started to experiment with different methods of improving the 
test execution and deciding what tests to run. In this talk, I will be 
sharing this experience.

From simple actions such as making sure you clean your tests and having a 
shorter list of ‘must runs’, all the way to using artificial intelligence 
to pick the tests that are more likely to fail, you will gain knowledge 
that will help YOU improve your current testing speed.

###### Bio
Noemi is a computer scientist passionate about technology and testing. 
She holds the position of senior software developer in test and she 
strives for quality, automation and tooling creation to ease the entire 
development process. Her career goal is to research new technologies 
(such as AI and VR) and apply them to testing. She has worked in 
multinational companies such as IBM, Microsoft, Dell, also in a startup 
in Ireland, and Netease Games in China. Currently, she works as a 
Solution Architect at Sauce Labs.

###### Video
{{< youtube kecGB9VDoe0 >}}