---
title: "CTM in June @ WeWork Stralauer Allee"
date: 2019-06-25T18:00:00+02:00
image: "/images/2019-06-25/highres_482596372.jpg"
images: ["/images/2019-06-25/highres_482596372.jpg"]
# categories
categories: ["ctm - Berlin"]
tags: ["ctm", "berlin"]
# meta description
description: "CTM in June @ WeWork Stralauer Allee"
# save as draft
draft: false
summary: "Talks:<br>Park & Ride – The road to tests (Sanja Batkovic) <br> But They Worked Locally … How To Fix Flaky Tests On The Real Device Cloud (Daniel Paulus)"
# Images path
path: "/images/2019-06-25/"
---

### Park & Ride – The road to tests
[Sanja Batkovic, Lead Software Engineer at HERE Technologies](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sbatkovic/)

Testing products where the baseline is known are almost not challenging. 
But what to do when you need to test a product where no baseline exists 
yet? How to test a product that no one else made before? How to compare 
and measure the quality of the test results in that situation? Sometimes 
testing against the expected behavior is not the right solution. In this 
talk I will show ideas how to approach this challenge.

###### Bio
Sanja is currently working as a Lead Software Engineer in Test of the 
Urban Mobility team at HERE Technologies. Together with highly motivated 
people she ensures high quality for all the products her team is creating. 
For six years she has been professionally involved in solving testing 
requirements in multiple high-profile companies. Applying test driven 
methodologies and introducing long-term testing solutions. Her focus is 
on backend testing and she is always seeking new challenges.

{{< button-link "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UP5tuVCz9nwoLT_UktCnJB_iTKqRv5m2/view" "Slides" >}}

### But They Worked Locally … How To Fix Flaky Tests On The Real Device Cloud
[Daniel Paulus, Senior Software Engineer at Sauce Labs](https://www.linkedin.com/in/daniel-paulus-580b0991/)

The most challenging aspect of running tests on a real device cloud 
is the multitude of possible failures. It could be that the test is 
inherently flaky, because writing reliable UI tests is hard. It could 
be that the app actually has a bug. It is possible that there is an 
unreliable device on the cloud or on very rare occasions, you could have 
discovered a bug in the real device platform. What you will see is that 
your tests always passed on your local device(s) but suddenly fail on the cloud.

###### Bio
Daniel Paulus is Senior Software Engineer at the Sauce Labs Real Device 
Cloud for continuous, automated testing. With his team he works on the 
low level internals of Android and iOS devices to help Sauce Labs 
deliver market-leading performance. Daniel previously held roles as 
developer, team leader, IT manager and project manager during his 
13-year career as an officer in the German Military.

###### Video
{{< youtube QIwLQ3M6ubs >}}