---
title: "CTM in August @ WeWork Stralauer Allee"
date: 2019-08-15
image: "/images/2019-08-15/highres_484026454.jpg"
# categories
categories: ["ctm - Berlin"]
tags: ["ctm", "berlin"]
# meta description
description: "CTM in August @ WeWork Stralauer Allee"
# save as draft
draft: false
summary: "Talks:<br>Lessons Learned Founding an Open Source Project (Dan Cuellar) <br> QA in E-Commerce Environments with Selenium (Jesus Sanchez)"
# Images path
path: "/images/2019-08-15/"
---

### Lessons Learned Founding an Open Source Project
[Dan Cuellar, Creator of Appium](https://twitter.com/thedancuellar)

When I demo’ed what is now called Appium at the Selenium Conference 
in 2012 I had no idea what I was doing starting an open source project. 
I knew little about how open source operated and worked behind the 
scenes. Thanks to the help of a great community and the advice of some 
seasoned open source contributors, Appium has quickly become the most 
popular open source mobile automation framework. Along the way, 
mistakes were made, lessons were learned, and occasionally we got 
things right. I’ve put together a collection of stories and lessons 
that I’d like to share with others to help everyone manage, contribute 
to, and consume open source software projects more effectively.

###### Video
{{< youtube t46E62bD4YQ >}}

### QA in E-Commerce Environments with Selenium
[Jesus Sanchez, QA Lead at Onestic](https://twitter.com/qa_jesus)

The role played by a QA in any software company. False miths and 
examples of everything a testing team can bring to all the project 
development levels. We will analyse the structure implanted in 
Onestic to test all our projects effectively and easily mantained.

###### Bio
Tireless traveler. IT engineer with a master in Big Data Analytics. 
Currently directing the QA department at Onestic, where I automate 
and monitor everything I can! Quality as a way of life! All my work 
experience has been linked to testing and how to implement this philosophy 
in the companies I have worked for. Active member of the Selenium 
community and occasional speaker. Founder of QA Minds Europe, where we 
offer high level training to testers and companies in Europe. Trying to 
expand the culture of quality by bringing together great professionals 
from the sector with great mentors.
