---
title: "CTM in December @ myToys"
date: 2019-12-04T18:30:00+02:00
image: "/images/2019-12-04/highres_486847871.jpg"
images: ["/images/2019-12-04/highres_486847871.jpg"]
# categories
categories: ["ctm - Berlin"]
tags: ["ctm", "berlin"]
# meta description
description: "CTM in December @ myToys"
# save as draft
draft: false
summary: "Talks:<br>The Changing Role of the Test Manager (Aksana Matulskaya) <br> Modern Testmanagement @myToys (Irina Herlein)"
# Images path
path: "/images/2019-12-04/"
---

> Special **thank you** to **[myToys](https://www.mytoys.de/)** for hosting and 
sponsoring food and drinks!

### The Changing Role of the Test Manager
[Aksana Matulskaya, Managing IT-Consultant at trendig](https://www.linkedin.com/in/aksana-matulskaya-81939317/)

While in traditional organizations test managers usually perform such 
activities as controlling testing process, assigning tasks to testers, 
and providing test estimates, in Agile and DevOps projects it’s not the 
testing group but the whole team who is responsible for the product 
quality. This shift in perspective leads to the disappearance of the 
classical role of the test manager. At this Meetup, we will discuss 
which from the test management activities are still relevant for Agile 
and DevOps projects, and give insights into new possibilities for 
“traditional” test managers, using the examples from the real projects.

###### Bio
Aksana is a Managing IT-Consultant at trendig technology services GmbH. 
She started her career as a tester evolving into a test lead and quality 
coach. She works with great commitment and enthusiasm for international 
clients in different industries, helping them find the right test-toolbox 
solutions and improve the overall testing process. She loves sharing her 
knowledge and passion for testing.

### Modern Testmanagement @myToys
Irina Herlein, Testmanager at myToys

New projects @myToys are often a mix of „Go agile!“ and „All 
requirements need to be fulfilled in the next few months“.
So there you are as a Testmanager in one of those projects. You 
know the team members who are involved in this project, their roles, 
and the goal. Then I introduce myself and start talking to developers & a business department about testing. Sometimes I get a lot of questions like: 
„Testmanager? Go test it by yourself“, „Who needs a Testmanager?“, 
„Is testing and Testmanagement the same thing?“

Is it possible for you as a Testmanager to handle a lot of projects 
at the same time? My answer is yes! And it has nothing to do with 
going agile or stoping one project and starting another one.

In this talk, I will tell you about the modern Testmanagement @myToys, 
how we went through some storms and what strategies we use.

###### Bio
Irina has been working @myToys for 3 years now. She started as a 
Tester and now she is working as a Testmanager and is part of the 
Quality Assurance department. Together with her team, she wants to 
bring quality to every niche @myToys. Together with two Otto Group 
members, she organizes Quality Assurance Meetup‘s @Otto.
