---
title: "Arjuna - A Modern Web UI Test Automation Framework - Online Meetup"
date: 2020-05-07T14:00:00+02:00
image: "/images/2020-05-07/1.jpg"
# categories
categories: ["ctm - Online"]
tags: ["ctm", "online"]
# meta description
description: "Arjuna - A Modern Web UI Test Automation Framework - Online Meetup"
# save as draft
draft: false
summary: "Talks:<br>Arjuna - A Modern Web UI Test Automation Framework (Rahul Verma)"
# Images path
path: "/images/2020-05-07/"
---

### Arjuna - A Modern Web UI Test Automation Framework
[Rahul Verma](https://arjuna-taf.readthedocs.io/)

Arjuna is a Python based test automation framework developed by Rahul Verma. 
It is an open source, Apache Licensed software. Rahul has implemented 
smaller variants of features in Arjuna across frameworks and organizations, 
or given advice around it. However, Arjuna being a generic library has 
the most complete implementation of his ideas, away from project specific 
contexts and constraints.

Selenium WebDriver has grown to become the default choice for browser 
automation for most test engineers either directly or as the underlying 
engine in many tools. Selenium provides building blocks for browser 
automation. Direct test automation code of professional quality needs 
a lot of thought and verbose code if directly written with Selenium. 
On top of this, any web UI test automation framework in a team grows 
over time to encapsulate test engine needs. A practical observation is 
that any mature web test automation framework has possibly 10-15% Selenium 
related code and rest is about reading of files, hooks, configuration 
handling, business functions and so on. On the same lines Page Object Model 
in its original form turns out to be too basic for professional usage needs.

Arjuna encapsulates Selenium completely and has its own DSL. It similarly 
encapsulates pytest and many of its plugins along with file readers, 
XML/JSON parsers and so on. It uses Python's advanced coding constructs 
to provide a very flexible and intuitive Tester Programming Interface (TPI). 
This presentation discusses the advanced Gui Abstraction Model supported 
by Arjuna for Web UI Automation.

It is a step by step presentation where Rahul takes raw Selenium code 
and discusses specific problems/challenges (Python is used as the 
code medium as framework is in Python as well). Then step by step he 
takes it through transitioning while using Arjuna facilities.

To know more about Arjuna, you can check the online documentation 
of Arjuna at https://arjuna-taf.readthedocs.io

###### Bio
Rahul Verma is an Indian testing entrepreneur and an awarded thought 
leader for his contributions to the testing community. He is Head of 
Test Automation at trendig GmbH and Founder of Test Mile and Community 
Proxy for STeP-IN Forum. He is the creator of Arjuna – a free, open 
source, Python based modern test automation framework. He has contributed 
to creation and review of various certifications. His software testing 
experience includes building test automation frameworks in Python and 
Java, web security, white box testing and web performance testing. His 
research work focuses on Object-oriented design patterns applied to test 
automation and extending them into general purpose models. He has presented, 
published articles and educated thousands of testers in the said areas. 
His testing ideas and work are deeply influenced by his exposure and 
interest in poetry and spirituality.

###### Video
{{< youtube jXqptZUOCEY >}}