---
title: "Modern PERFORMANCE testing principles - Online Meetup"
date: 2020-07-08T15:00:00+02:00
image: "/images/2020-07-08/speaker_slide.png"
images: ["/images/2020-07-08/speaker_slide.png"]
# categories
categories: ["ctm - Online"]
tags: ["ctm", "online"]
# meta description
description: "Modern PERFORMANCE testing principles - Online Meetup"
# save as draft
draft: false
summary: "Talks:<br>Modern PERFORMANCE testing principles (Leandro Melendez)"
# Images path
path: "/images/2020-07-08/"
# Registration link
registration: "https://www.meetup.com/continuous-testing-meetup-berlin/events/271459288/"
---

### Modern PERFORMANCE testing principles: _Identify old and obsolete performance testing practices to embrace the new ways_

[Leandro Melendez, Performance Testing Manager at QualiTest group](https://www.linkedin.com/in/leandromelendez)

In this talk, Leandro will review the history of performance testing and show how it has led to a number of bad practices that many testers continue to put into place. For teams that are striving to be agile, these bad practices put up unnecessary roadblocks that can and should be eliminated. Leandro will show fun examples of these DON'Ts with an explanation as to why they are not a good approach. Then, of course, he will present a number of quick and fun examples of DO's for anyone pursuing modern agile methodologies. You will have a blast seeing and learning about these cool examples.

The presentation is geared to anyone involved in software development, at any stage, but especially for those who are involved in performance testing. The presentation will also appeal to managers who would like to get a better understanding of best practices in testing and how to leverage them in this modern agile era.

The audience will get a better understanding of the reasons for certain practices and the reasons to avoid old ones that are still lurking big time in many organizations.


###### Bio
Leandro is a performance testing manager at QualiTest group and provides testing consulting services. He has more than 20 years of experience in IT, with about half that time in the performance testing practice. He has worked with a number of S&P 500 customers in the USA, Mexico, Canada, Brazil, and Austria. Leandro is also the author of the popular performance testing blog [Señor Performo](www.srperf.com) in which he curates a diverse set of learning material for performance testers and engineers. He is the producer and host of the Spanish language version of the PerfBytes podcast and the Señor Performo learning YouTube channels.

###### Video
{{< youtube abe-cwhxEp4 >}}
