---
title: "Breaking Boundaries Using Charles"
date: 2020-12-03T19:00:00+01:00
image: "/images/2020-12-03/speaker_slide.jpg"
images: ["/images/2020-12-03/speaker_slide.jpg"]
# categories
categories: ["ctm - Online"]
tags: ["ctm", "online"]
# meta description
description: "Breaking Boundaries Using Charles"
# save as draft
draft: false
summary: "Talks:<br>Breaking Boundaries Using Charles (Suman Bala)"
# Images path
path: "/images/2020-12-03/"
# Registration link
registration: "https://www.meetup.com/continuous-testing-meetup-berlin/events/274527346/"
---

### Breaking Boundaries Using Charles
[Suman Bala: QA Lead and Automation Specialist at Sky](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sumanbala/)

Quite often we struggle to test all scenarios due to the limitation of test data especially when apps rely on 
3rdparty services and testing at different territories is required. Depending on the testability of your product, 
it can be hard to check all corner cases if the production back-end must be used and cannot be tricked. 
With a proxy, you can change what will be displayed.

Charles Proxy is known as Man-In-The-Middle and is loaded with features. Charles not only allows us to learn 
more about how our app functions the way it does, but it also opens our eyes to an entirely new array of testing 
possibilities to explore. Charles Proxy can help to identify the cause of the bug that relates to your app 
making/receiving network calls/responses!

Takeaways
– how to use Charles on iOS and Android devices.
– Observing and modifying HTTP Requests and Responses
– How to add a breakpoint and when not to use breakpoints
– Rewritingusing map local and remote
– Network throttling
– Charles for iOS; enabling you to capture traffic directly on iOS device.

###### Bio
Suman is a QA advocate with a passion for improvement in quality processes and is a strong believer in Test Automation. 
She started his testing journey nearly 15 years ago and she has designed & developed an automation framework from scratch 
for various products from middleware graphics library, e-commerce & mobile apps. She has honed her capabilities in coaching, 
mentoring, and team leading, as well as more strategic and technical demands associated with testing. Her mission is to 
develop teams to transform their thinking, approach, and capability, resulting in a happier and more efficient workforce. 
She feels proud of how people’s perspective has changed regarding testing throughout her career. She is striving to instil 
the idea that quality is everyone’s responsibility as opposed to merely laying it at the feet of QA. She is a co-organizer 
for the Ministry of Testing Leeds meet-up. She is part of multiple initiatives groups at Sky such as women in tech, better 
allies, grassroots leaders, and co-founder of the public speaking guild. Talk to her about quality first, building inclusive 
teams, and cooking.

{{< button-link "https://www.meetup.com/continuous-testing-meetup-berlin/events/274527346/" "Register" >}}
