---
title: "CTM in January @ Contentful"
date: 2020-01-24T18:30:00+02:00
image: "/images/2020-01-24/highres_488350880.jpg"
images: ["/images/2020-01-24/highres_488350880.jpg"]
videos: ["https://youtu.be/eEHe3vTrAdY", "https://youtu.be/cs5ebVzG_Q4"]
# categories
categories: ["ctm - Berlin"]
tags: ["ctm", "berlin"]
# meta description
description: "CTM in January @ Contentful"
# save as draft
draft: false
summary: "Talks:<br>Your locators are fragile! Make them strong with test data attributes (Anil Kumar Krishnashetty) <br> Contract Testing from the trenches (Enrique Amodeo & Sergiy Tupchiy)"
# Images path
path: "/images/2020-01-24/"
---

> Special **thank you** to **[Contentful](https://www.contentful.com/)** for hosting and 
sponsoring drinks and pizza!

### Your locators are fragile! Make them strong with test data attributes
[Anil Kumar Krishnashetty, IT Consultant at bitgrip Gmbh](https://twitter.com/anilbms75)

Anil will share lessons learned from WebdriverIO automation tests 
created for the E-commerce application. He will share mistakes to avoid, 
tools and strategies used to create future-friendly automation tests by 
creating test data attribute instead of reusing already existing locators.

After this talk, participants will be able to use test data attributes 
and learn how to involve Product Owner and Frontend Developers to create 
better locators with test data attributes.

###### Bio
Anil Kumar Krishnashetty is an IT Consultant at bitgrip Gmbh and founder 
of Berlin Lean Prototyping: a meetup focused on lean, digital prototyping 
tools & Product discovery techniques based in Berlin. Creator of VoiceX,
a low fidelity prototyping tool for the voice interface. He is a Frontend 
Architect with 10+ years of experience, worked as UX & Frontend developer 
for companies including SAP, Canto, Sapient & one.com. He has been speaking, 
writing about rapid prototyping tools, running and facilitating prototyping 
workshops. 

###### Video
{{< youtube eEHe3vTrAdY >}}

### Contract Testing from the trenches
[Enrique Amodeo, Senior Full Stack Engineer at Contentful](https://twitter.com/eamodeorubio) & [Sergiy Tupchiy, Software Developer in Test at Contentful](https://www.linkedin.com/in/stupchiy)

Contract testing in a green field project may be easy to implement, 
but when you try to transition to it in an already existing platform 
the things get tricky. We will talk about all the unexpected things 
that did happen to us when we started moving away from end to end 
testing towards contract testing using PACT. We will see how we were 
solving the obstacles that we encountered and how this lead sometimes 
to other problems. From gaps in the tooling as it is to the necessity 
of changing development workflows.

If you are planning to use PACT for contract testing in a non green 
field project this talk will make you aware of the main practical 
obstacles that you may find, and some ideas about how to overcome them.


###### Bio Enrique
Currently working in Contentful as Senior Full-Stack Software Engineer, 
Enrique writes highly scalable and resilient micro-services using Scala, 
JS, Typescript and GraphQL. He has previous extensive experience as an 
independent consultant and coacher and has worked as a Senior Software 
Engineer at eBay and as Tech Lead and Engineer Manager at SoundCloud. 
He has also written a book about testing with JavaScript: ["Learning Behavior-Driven Development with JavaScript"](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1784392642)

###### Bio Sergiy
Sergiy is a Software Developer in Test at Contentful. For up to 12 years 
working in a Software Testing and Test Automation field, building from 
scratch and optimising an existing software development, testing and 
delivery processes; mentoring and leading test engineering teams in a 
small/mid- sized startups as well as in a large enterprise. Mozilla 
open source community contributor in the past. Passionate about automation 
on all the levels, productivity, quality, open-source and doing things right.

###### Video
{{< youtube cs5ebVzG_Q4 >}}