---
title: "“It works on my browser!” is the new “It works on my machine!”"
date: 2021-04-13T19:00:00+01:00
image: "/images/2021-04-13/speaker_slide.jpg"
images: ["/images/2021-04-13/speaker_slide.jpg"]
# categories
categories: ["ctm - Online"]
tags: ["ctm", "online"]
# meta description
description: "“It works on my browser!” is the new “It works on my machine!”"
# save as draft
draft: false
summary: "Talk:<br>“It works on my browser!” is the new “It works on my machine!” (Matthias Zax)"
# Images path
path: "/images/2021-04-13/"
# Registration link
registration: "https://www.meetup.com/continuous-testing-meetup-berlin/events/277085418"
---

### “It works on my browser!” is the new “It works on my machine!”
[Matthias Zax - Agile Engineering Coach at Raiffeisen Bank International AG](https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthias-zax-40520183/)

Imagine, you have spent a lot of time and money in developing a high-quality 
web application. If you don’t want to be surprised after releasing your 
application to the market, you have to take care that the application works 
in your target audience's most used browsers. Therefore, not only function 
tests are required, but also interoperability tests must be considered in your 
test strategy.

INTEROPERABILITY TESTING is a software testing type, that checks whether the 
software can interact with other software components and systems without any 
compatibility issues. In your case, you must consider Cross-browser compatibility 
testing.

Cross-browser compatibility testing has been gaining a lot of traction in 
recent years and there is a reason for it. While technology is evolving rapidly, 
people aren’t. A significant amount of people are resistant to changes, or more 
specifically, “have an aversion to upgrading their tech”. In this scenario, 
it’s browser compatibility testing that enables companies to ensure that no 
customer is left behind or has an experience that is not desired. So even though 
browsers like Google Chrome and Firefox dominate the market, there are people 
using their older versions, or other browsers. And their numbers are too high to 
be ignored. This phänomän is called browser fragmentation.

It is important to choose the right combination of web browsers and operating 
systems for testing. There is usually a trade-off between test cost and range. 
Therefore, this entire exercise is finding the right balance - testing with 
minimal browsers/devices to ensure that the maximum number of people can use 
the application.

By virtualizing test resources using browser clouds, the problem of 
ever-increasing browser fragmentation (browser type, platform, OS version) 
and the question of interoperability can be effectively and efficiently solved.

This talk uses a practical example to show what needs to be considered when 
designing the test strategy from an organizational perspective (non-functional 
requirements, browser policy, browser test strategy, browser test coverage, ...) 
and how the cross-browser tests were integrated into the continuous delivery 
pipelines by using browser device clouds.

###### Bio

Matthias Zax works as an agile engineering coach at Raiffeisen Bank 
International AG (RBI). Originally a trained software developer and “#developerByHeart”, 
he has focused on testing software specialized on test automation in the DevOps 
environment since 2018 and organizes the RBI Test Automation Community of Practice.

###### Contact
- <i class="fa fa-twitter"></i> -> [AgileDevByHeart](https://twitter.com/MatthiasZAX)
- <i class="fa fa-linkedin"></i> -> [matthias-zax-40520183](https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthias-zax-40520183/)


{{< button-link "https://www.meetup.com/continuous-testing-meetup-berlin/events/277085418" "Register" >}}

###### Video
{{< youtube rgHhJBU7YJw >}}
